=== PAGE 1 ===
YBS305-Visual  Programming Course Term Project  
March  24th, 202 6 
 
Every student attending to  this course should prepare a software project that must include the 
following mandatory parts.   
The subject of the project is the development of software necessary for commercial activities. Stock 
control, any reservation system, sales automation, shift tracking etc. are examples of activities.  The 
project topic can be the entire project or an important part of a larger project.  
• Only topics other than the examples shown in the course should be selected.   
• Project should be studied individually.   
• Project should be devel oped by Visual Studio 2022  with .Net Core 6 or above, Coded by C# , 
as a Window desktop  or web  app.  
• No paid or demo program plugins and additional libraries and packages will be used. Only 
free Nuget packages are allowed.  
 
Content,  Grading  and schedule : 
1. HW1  (10%)  
2. HW2 -Project Planning  (10%) (should be submitted up to  end of 9.th week),  
a. Project name  and business description of project you want to implement,  
b. Job workflow explanation of the project , 
c. Draw “Use Case Diagram” of project to explain it in detail,  
d. Project should be designed at least  3 layer  (Multitier Architecture ), 
i. User Interface layer: Determining and designing the user interfaces needed 
in the project, drawing the transition links between the forms /web pages , 
ii. Business logic layer: Define the required business functions, model and 
implement them using objects,  
iii. Data layer: Identify user data that should be stored in the database and 
organize them into tables,  
e. Project planning section should be prepared as a word file  and send via OİS.  
3. Project Prep aration /Implementation  (40%) (12th week)  
a. Must have a GUI /WebForm  with at least 3 active forms /pages , 
b. Must have at least two Class designed and used by the student ( at least one to 
implement business logic),  
c. Must use LINQ  by using at least one array or collection and specifying its usage.  
d. Must employ a Database  by using Entity Framework Core ,  
e. The project must be submitted in zip/rar format at OIS -LMS  & Github until the 12th 
week.  
f. The project must be presented in the laboratory in weeks 12, 13 and 14, otherwise 
no grade will be given.  (The presentation schedule will be provided later. ) 
4. Final Exam  (40%)  
Notes:  
• Project steps graded separately.  
• All studies and the Report must be prepared in English.  
• Assignments submitted after the deadline will not be accepted.  

